Symptoms of anxiety
Anxiety can cause many different symptoms. It might affect how you feel physically, mentally and how you behave.
It's not always easy to recognise when anxiety is the reason you're feeling or acting differently.
Physical symptoms
faster, irregular or more noticeable heartbeat
feeling lightheaded and dizzy
headaches
chest pains
loss of appetite
sweating
breathlessness
feeling hot
shaking
Mental symptoms
feeling tense or nervous
being unable to relax
worrying about the past or future
feeling tearful
not being able to sleep
difficulty concentrating
fear of the worst happening
intrusive traumatic memories
obsessive thoughts
Changes in behaviour
not being able to enjoy your leisure time
difficulty looking after yourself
struggling to form or maintain relationships
worried about trying new things
avoiding places and situations that create anxiety
compulsive behaviour, such as constantly checking things

Causes of anxiety, fear and panic
There are many different causes of anxiety, fear or panic and it's different for everyone.
When you're feeling anxious or scared, your body releases stress hormones, such as adrenaline and cortisol.
This can be helpful in some situations, but it might also cause physical symptoms such as an increased heart rate and increased sweating. In some people, it might cause a panic attack.
Regular anxiety, fear or panic can also be the main symptom of several health conditions. Do not self-diagnose – speak to a GP if you're worried about how you're feeling.
Identifying the cause
If you know what's causing anxiety, fear or panic, it might be easier to find ways to manage it.
Some examples of possible causes include:
work – feeling pressure at work, unemployment or retirement
family – relationship difficulties, divorce or caring for someone
financial problems – unexpected bills or borrowing money
health – illness, injury or losing someone (bereavement)
difficult past experiences – bullying, abuse or neglect
Even significant life events such as buying a house, having a baby or planning a wedding could lead to feelings of stress and anxiety.
You might find it hard to explain to people why you feel this way, but talking to someone could help you find a solution.