How can I support someone with depression?

Support them with getting help
You can't force anyone to get help for depression if they don't want it. But you can reassure them that it's OK to ask for help, and that support is out there.
Helping them with practical things can also make a big difference. For example, looking into what services are available or taking them to appointments. 

Be open about depression
Lots of people can find it hard to open up and speak about how they're feeling. Try to be open about depression and difficult emotions.
This will help them know that it's OK to talk about what they're experiencing. Speaking honestly and with no judgement can let them know that you’re ready to listen.

Keep in touch
It might be hard for them to have the energy to keep up contact. So it can help if you make the effort to keep in touch.
It can even be just a text message or email to let them know that you're thinking of them. This could make a big difference to how they feel.
Try not to put too much pressure on them to reply. The main thing is that they know you’re there for them.

Don't be critical
You might find it hard to understand why someone can't just 'snap out' of depression. This is especially if you haven’t experienced it yourself.
Try not to blame them or put too much pressure on them to get better straight away. They're probably being very critical and harsh towards themselves already.

Find a balance
If someone's struggling, you might want to take care of everything for them. And there may be some practical things you can help with, like housework or cooking. But it can also help to encourage them to do things themselves.
Everyone will need different support. You could ask what they might find helpful from you. And you could help them identify things they can try themselves.
Finding ways of simplifying things they're struggling with can also help. For example, you might help them to set up a regular online grocery shop. Or you could suggest easy meals they could cook in batches and freeze for later.

Keep doing things you’d usually do together
When someone you know is experiencing depression, it might feel like this becomes the focus of your relationship. But depression is only one aspect of a person’s life.
It can help to keep doing other things together. And talk about things that you usually would. For example, if you normally watch TV together, or share a hobby.

These are some ideas of supportive things to say:
I’m sorry you’re feeling like this, and I’m here for you.
You’re important to me.
How are you managing?
What can I do to help you today? Or, if you can, ask something more specific, such as: Would you like me to come over and keep you company?

Try to avoid statements like:
Cheer up or just think positively.
You don’t seem that sad, or anything that invalidates what they’re going through.
Other people have it far worse than you.
You wouldn’t be depressed if you just did some exercise, or anything that blames them for what they’re experiencing.
You’re being selfish, or you should think about how this affects the rest of us.